Go API Docs improved descriptions/examples (#4704)
gravitational/teleport: docs/4.4/api-reference.md

```go
// RoleV3 represents role resource specification
type RoleV3 struct {
  // Resource Fields are fields that all Teleport resources have - see above
  Resource Fields
  // Spec is the role specification
  Spec RoleSpecV3 struct {
    // Options is for OpenSSH options like agent forwarding.
    Options RoleOptions
    // Allow is the set of conditions evaluated to grant access.
    Allow RoleConditions
    // Deny is the set of conditions evaluated to deny access. Deny takes priority over allow.
    Deny RoleConditions
  }
}
```

**Role Options**

The `RoleOptions` struct defines what OpenSSH actions a user is allowed to use.

```go
// RoleOptions is a set of role options
type RoleOptions struct {
  // ForwardAgent is SSH agent forwarding. default true.
  ForwardAgent Bool
  // MaxSessionTTL defines how long a SSH session can last for.
  MaxSessionTTL Duration
  // PortForwarding defines if the certificate will have "permit-port-forwarding"
  // in the certificate. PortForwarding is true if not set.
  PortForwarding *BoolOption // struct { Value bool } - Nullable boolean

>   CertificateFormat string

Reviewer: Missing comment.

  // ClientIdleTimeout sets disconnect clients on idle timeout behavior,
  // if set to 0 means do not disconnect, otherwise is set to the idle duration.
  ClientIdleTimeout Duration
  // DisconnectExpiredCert sets disconnect clients on expired certificates.
  DisconnectExpiredCert Bool
  // BPF defines what events to record for the BPF-based session recorder.
  BPF []string
  // PermitX11Forwarding authorizes use of X11 forwarding.
  PermitX11Forwarding Bool
  // MaxConnections defines the maximum number of
  // concurrent connections a user may hold.
  MaxConnections int64
  // MaxSessions defines the maximum number of
  // concurrent sessions per connection.
  MaxSessions int64
}
```

**Role Conditions**

The `RoleConditions` struct allows for precise permission combinations between a role's `Allow` and `Deny` fields.

> `Deny` conditions take priority over `Allow` conditions. If a user has multiple roles, their role permissions will be evaluated together, which can potentially lead to conflicting conditions. This can result in a user being denied permissions that another role of theirs allows.

Reviewer: I would describe it something like below:

Deny conditions are evaluated first and they are logically OR'ed. That means if any role matches a deny section for either labels or logins, you will be denied access. If you are not denied access to anything, then the allow conditions are evaluated and they are logically AND'ed. That means you have to match both labels and logins to be allowed access.

This is the function that does the evaluation.

https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/lib/services/role.go#L1719-L1774

)
```

**Resources**

These are all of the possible resource values, which can be found in the `services` package.

```go
KindUser              = "user"
KindLicense           = "license"
KindRole              = "role"
KindAccessRequest     = "access_request"
KindPluginData        = "plugin_data"
KindOIDC              = "oidc"
KindSAML              = "saml"
KindGithub            = "github"
KindOIDCRequest       = "oidc_request"
KindSAMLRequest       = "saml_request"
KindGithubRequest     = "github_request"
KindWebSession        = "web_session"
KindAuthServer        = "auth_server"
KindProxy             = "proxy"
KindNode              = "node"
KindAppServer         = "app_server"
KindToken             = "token"
KindCertAuthority     = "cert_authority"
KindOIDCConnector     = "oidc"
KindSAMLConnector     = "saml"
KindGithubConnector   = "github"
KindClusterConfig     = "cluster_config"
KindSemaphore         = "semaphore"
KindClusterName       = "cluster_name"
KindStaticTokens      = "static_tokens"
KindTrustedCluster    = "trusted_cluster"
KindIdentity          = "identity"
KindKubeService       = "kube_service"

> ```

Reviewer: I wouldn't list these out like this unless we include documentation explaining how to use them.

Author: @russjones This list was a request from another review comment, because apparently a lot of users have trouble finding the values of resources to add to roles. Perhaps that is out of scope here though, and it definitely doesn't look pretty. I'll remove it for now.

}
```

## Object Model

> Many of our primary objects, such as `Roles` or `Tokens`, the fields that `Model` has within them. To keep the documentation below readable, we will refer to these fields as `Model`. The Teleport auth server's database uses these fields to identify and manage them.

Author: Just want to confirm, is what I said here about the database correct?

  // MaxSessions defines the maximum number of
  // concurrent sessions per connection.
  MaxSessions int64
}
```

### Role Conditions

The `RoleConditions` struct allows for precise permission combinations between a role's `Allow` and `Deny` fields.

`Deny` rules take priority over `Allow` rules. If a user has multiple roles, their role permissions will be evaluated together, which can potentially lead to conflicting rules. This can result in a user being denied permissions that another role of theirs allows.

However, this also allows you to take a modular approach to defining roles. Splitting roles up into logical parts will allow you to manage roles for many developers more effectively. It may also be effective to keep your deny and allow rules in separate roles so that conflicting roles are obvious.

```go
// RoleConditions is a set of conditions that must all match to be allowed or denied access.
type RoleConditions struct {
  // Logins is a list of *nix system logins,  e.g. "root".
  Logins []string
  // Namespaces is a list of namespaces (used to partition a cluster).
  Namespaces []string
  // NodeLabels is a map of node labels (used to dynamically grant access to nodes).

>   NodeLabels Labels // essentially map[string][]string

Reviewer 2: I notice that with some of these fields, we're giving the name of a struct and what it actually consists of (like with `NodeLabels Labels` here where we say `// essentially map[string][]string`) but on some of these fields we're explicitly saying `struct { Roles []string }`, like with `Request *AccessRequestConditions` below.

Is this because `Request` actually accepts a generic struct whereas `NodeLabels` has a requirement of being that named struct, or is this an inconsistency?

Author: Labels are just a custom type for map[string]Strings, which is essentially map[string][]string and doesn't need much explanation imo. But I did handle other structs in a somewhat inconsistent way, because some needed more explanation than others. I'll mess around with some different options to handle this issue.

```go
services.Labels{
  "environment": utils.Strings{"development", "staging"},
}
```

Depending on which field you put these labels in, you can allow/deny access to any nodes, apps, or leaf clusters with the given labels. These labels can be very useful in systems where you need to carefully manage access across many clusters, e.g. if you are managing clusters for several outside groups.

**Rules**
A rule consists of two parts: the resources and verbs. Here's an example of a rule describing "read only" verbs applied to the SSH `sessions` resource. Depending on if it's under `Allow` or `Deny`, it means "allow/deny users of this role the ability to read or list active SSH sessions".

```go
services.NewRule(
  services.KindSession,
  services.RO(), // helper function to get 'read only' verbs ("list" and "read")
)
```

**Resources**

These are all of the possible resource values, which can be found in the `services` package.

```go

> KindUser              = "user"
> KindLicense           = "license"
> KindRole              = "role"
> KindAccessRequest     = "access_request"
> KindPluginData        = "plugin_data"
> KindOIDC              = "oidc"
> KindSAML              = "saml"
> KindGithub            = "github"
> KindOIDCRequest       = "oidc_request"
> KindSAMLRequest       = "saml_request"
> KindGithubRequest     = "github_request"
> KindWebSession        = "web_session"
> KindAuthServer        = "auth_server"
> KindProxy             = "proxy"
> KindNode              = "node"
> KindAppServer         = "app_server"
> KindToken             = "token"
> KindCertAuthority     = "cert_authority"
> KindOIDCConnector     = "oidc"
> KindSAMLConnector     = "saml"
> KindGithubConnector   = "github"
> KindClusterConfig     = "cluster_config"
> KindSemaphore         = "semaphore"
> MetaNameClusterConfig = "cluster-config"
> KindClusterName       = "cluster_name"
> MetaNameClusterName   = "cluster-name"
> KindStaticTokens      = "static_tokens"
> MetaNameStaticTokens  = "static-tokens"
> KindTrustedCluster    = "trusted_cluster"
> KindIdentity          = "identity"
> KindKubeService       = "kube_service"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
KindUser              = "user"
KindLicense           = "license"
KindRole              = "role"
KindAccessRequest     = "access_request"
KindPluginData        = "plugin_data"
KindOIDC              = "oidc"
KindSAML              = "saml"
KindGithub            = "github"
KindOIDCRequest       = "oidc_request"
KindSAMLRequest       = "saml_request"
KindGithubRequest     = "github_request"
KindWebSession        = "web_session"
KindAuthServer        = "auth_server"
KindProxy             = "proxy"
KindNode              = "node"
KindAppServer         = "app_server"
KindToken             = "token"
KindCertAuthority     = "cert_authority"
KindOIDCConnector     = "oidc"
KindSAMLConnector     = "saml"
KindGithubConnector   = "github"
KindClusterConfig     = "cluster_config"
KindSemaphore         = "semaphore"
KindClusterName       = "cluster_name"
KindStaticTokens      = "static_tokens"
KindTrustedCluster    = "trusted_cluster"
KindIdentity          = "identity"
KindKubeService       = "kube_service"
```

(I'm pretty sure you can only use the underscored versions in resources)

Author: @webvictim what is the issue/change here?

```

**Verbs**

These are all of the possible resource values, which can be found in the `services` package.

```go
VerbList          = "list"
VerbCreate        = "create"
VerbRead          = "read"
VerbReadNoSecrets = "readnosecrets"
VerbUpdate        = "update"
VerbDelete        = "delete"
VerbRotate        = "rotate"

> ```

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a definition of what `readnosecrets` actually means in practice and when you'd want to use it?

(I'm sorry - I know a lot of this stuff is kinda out of scope for what you're trying to do but I'm just predicting the issues/requests that will come in afterwards)

Author: @webvictim Hmm I looked into it, but don't really understand well enough to write about it. I don't see comments on docs on it so I'd have to search around a lot to see how and why it's used. Would you be able to make a short description or give me some kind of starting point for research?

Reviewer 2: @russjones @klizhentas Could you please detail what the difference is between `read` and `readnosecrets`?

Author: I actually found the difference while I was documenting our CA rotation, so I can add a description in the CA docs PR coming up.

}
```

## Object Model

Many of our primary objects, such as `Roles` or `Tokens`, the fields that `Model` has within them. To keep the documentation below readable, we will refer to these fields as `Model`. The Teleport auth server's database uses these fields to identify and manage them.

```go

> // Model is a model of the fields that all Teleport objects have

Reviewer 3: Resource

> type Model struct {

Reviewer 3: Resource

You can manage roles with the Teleport CLI tool  [tctl](cli-docs.md#tctl), or programmatically with the RPC calls documented below.

You may want to use the API to manage roles if:

- You want to write a program that can always ensure certain roles exist on your system and do not want to orchestrate tctl to do this.
- You want to dynamically create short lived roles.
- You want to dynamically create roles with fields filled that Teleport currently does not support.

### The Role Object

Before we break down the Role object piece by piece, You can look at the `Create Role` section below to see an example of a role.

A Teleport `role` is primarily defined by its `Spec`, which contains its `Allow` rules, `Deny` rules, and OpenSSH `Options`.

```go
// RoleV3 represents role resource specification
type RoleV3 struct {
  // Spec is the role specification
  Spec RoleSpecV3 struct {
    // Options is for OpenSSH options like agent forwarding.
    Options RoleOptions
    // Allow is the set of conditions evaluated to grant access.
    Allow RoleConditions

>     // Deny is the set of conditions evaluated to deny access. Deny takes priority over allow.

Reviewer 2: It's probably worth adding a note here (or in the "further explanation" section below) that if a user has multiple roles, the `Deny` section applies to the full set of permissions that they get as a result.

This catches people out sometimes; they set up one role for dev access which explicitly denies `production` and a second role that explicitly allows `production`, but they still don't get the `production` access they expect when they have both roles (because of the explicit `Deny` on the first role which applies to everything)

    Deny RoleConditions
  }
  // MetaData and other descriptors
  ...
}
```

**Role Options**

> The `RoleOptions` struct defines what OpenSSH actions a user is allowed to use. Below are a few of the most common fields, but check [here](enterprise/ssh-rbac.md#role-options) for a full list of supported options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `RoleOptions` struct defines what OpenSSH actions a user is allowed to use. Below are a few of the most common fields, but check the [RBAC role options](enterprise/ssh-rbac.md#role-options) documentation for a full list of supported options.
```

```go
// RoleOptions is a set of role options
type RoleOptions struct {
  // ForwardAgent is SSH agent forwarding. default true.
  ForwardAgent Bool
  // MaxSessionTTL defines how long a SSH session can last for.
  MaxSessionTTL Duration
  // PortForwarding defines if the certificate will have "permit-port-forwarding" in the

>   // certificate. PortForwarding is "yes" if not set.

Reviewer 2: I notice that we use "yes" here rather than `true` as in `ForwardAgent` above - we should be consistent and use `true` for both as this is an explicit `Bool`

Author: I wasn't sure if that "yes" had a different meaning when I copied the comment from the code.

  PortForwarding *BoolOption // struct { Value bool } - Nullable boolean
}
```

**Role Conditions**

The `RoleConditions` struct allows for precise permission combinations. You can define what *nix logins a role can use, what resources it can read/write to, what nodes it has access to (via NodeLabels), and more.

Most roles will only need to define a few of these fields.

```go
// RoleConditions is a set of conditions that must all match to be allowed or denied access.
type RoleConditions struct {
  // Logins is a list of *nix system logins,  e.g. "root".
  Logins []string
  // Namespaces is a list of namespaces (used to partition a cluster).
  Namespaces []string
  // NodeLabels is a map of node labels (used to dynamically grant access to nodes).
  NodeLabels Labels // essentially map[string][]string
  // Rules is a list of rules and their access levels. Rules represents allow or deny rule
  // that is executed to check if user or service have access to resource
  Rules []Rule struct {

>     // Resources is a list of resources - e.g. "roles", "users"

Reviewer 2: People have been asking for an exact list of all the resources we support for quite a while - it'd be great to extract that from the code and get this into these docs somewhere.

    Resources []string

>     // Verbs is a list of verbs - e.g. "read", "create"

Reviewer 2: Same as resources above - a full list of what verbs we support would be great.

    Verbs []string

>     // Where specifies optional advanced matcher

Reviewer 2: The `Where` functionality has the potential to be really powerful but we have basically no docs at all on it at the moment. It'd be nice to get a @klizhentas brain dump and/or a load of worked examples into these docs at some point.

Author: Agreed, I couldn't find any info on what it does.

    Where string
    // Actions specifies optional actions taken when this rule matches

>     Actions []string

Reviewer 2: Pretty sure we have no docs anywhere on what you can do as `Actions` currently either.

  }

>   // KubeGroups is a list of kubernetes groups

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // KubeGroups is a list of kubernetes groups that Teleport users with this role will be
  // allowed to impersonate when communicating with the kubernetes API
```

  KubeGroups []string
  // A list of roles that this role can request access to
  Request *AccessRequestConditions struct {
    Roles []string
  }

>   // KubeUsers is an optional kubernetes users to impersonate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // KubeUsers is a optional list of kubernetes users that Teleport users with this role will be
  // allowed to impersonate when communicating with the kubernetes API
```
```

  KubeUsers []string
}
```

A couple of these fields are worth further explanation.

*Rules*: A rule consists of two parts: the resources and verbs. Here's an example of a rule describing "read only" verbs applied to the SSH `sessions` resource. Depending on if it's under `Allow` or `Deny`, it means "allow/deny users of this role the ability to read or list active SSH sessions".

```go
services.NewRule(
  services.KindSession, // check services.Kind* to see what other resources there are.
  services.RO(), // helper function to get 'read only' verbs ("list" and "read")
)
```

> *NodeLabels*: Node labels are arbitrary key:value pairs that can be used to differentiate nodes by key attributes. For example, one of the most common label would be `environment`, which can be one of `development`, `staging`, or `production`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*NodeLabels*: Node labels are arbitrary key:value pairs that can be used to differentiate nodes by key attributes. For example, one of the most common labels might have the key `environment`, with its value set to `development`, `staging`, or `production` according to the node's location.
```

```go
// Putting this label under "Allow" would allow the role to ssh into nodes with the "development" or "staging" labels.
services.Labels{
  "environment": utils.Strings{"development", "staging"},
}
```

### Retrieve Role

This is the equivalent of `tctl get role/admin`.

```go
role, err := client.GetRole("admin")
if err != nil {
  return err
}
```

### Create Role

> You can use the UpsertRole RPC to programmatically create a new role. This is the equivalent of `tctl create -f auditor-role.yaml`, where the `-f` flag signals to overwrite the auditor role if it exists already.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the `UpsertRole` RPC to programmatically create a new role. This is the equivalent of `tctl create -f auditor-role.yaml`, where the `-f` flag signals to overwrite the auditor role if it exists already.
```

For example, suppose you wanted to create a role for an auditor that could view all sessions, but could not access any servers.

> Using tctl, you would first create a role that allows reading and listing of the session resource like below. In addition, the user is explicitly denied access to all nodes in the deny block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using `tctl`, you would first create a role that allows reading and listing of the session resource like below. In addition, the user is explicitly denied access to all nodes in the deny block.
```

```
$ cat << EOF > /tmp/auditor-role.yaml
kind: role
version: v3
metadata:
  name: auditor
spec:
  options:
    max_session_ttl: 8h
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources: [session]
      verbs: [list, read]
  deny: {}
    node_labels: '*': '*'
EOF
$ tctl create -f /tmp/auditor-role.yaml
```

To do something similar with the API:

```go
role, err := services.NewRole("auditor", services.RoleSpecV3{
  Options: services.RoleOptions{
    MaxSessionTTL: services.Duration(time.Hour),
  },
  Allow: services.RoleConditions{
    Logins: []string{"auditor"},
    Rules: []services.Rule{
      services.NewRule(services.KindSession, services.RO()),
    },
  },
  Deny: services.RoleConditions{
    NodeLabels: services.Labels{"*": []string{"*"}},
  },
})
if err != nil {
  return err
}

> if err = client.UpsertRole(ctx, role); err != nil {

Reviewer 2: Does running `UpsertRole` automatically imply the equivalent of the force `-f` switch to `tctl`? I'm presuming so from this; just wondering if there's an extra flag or anything that needs to be set.

Author: IIUC, yes that is what `UpsertRole` implies. I can do some more digging if you think that might be wrong.

Reviewer 2: No, I just wanted to double check :)

  return err
}
```

### Update Role

> The UpsertRole RPC can also be used to update an existing role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `UpsertRole` RPC can also be used to update an existing role.
```

> You can update practically any field within the role struct using the role's setter functions.

Reviewer 2: It would be better to give a precise list of fields you can/can't update rather than saying "practically any".

Author: I think I'm going to change the wording rather than making an exhaustive list.

The root cluster in a [trusted cluster](admin-guide.md#adding-nodes-to-the-cluster) can add/update cluster labels on leaf clusters.

### Create a leaf cluster token with Labels

> Leaf clusters will inherit the labels of the [join token](trustedclusters.md#join-tokens) used to add them to the trusted cluster. This is the preferred method of managing cluster tokens.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure that this sentence makes sense currently - join tokens don't have labels set on them AFAIK?

Author: They do as of this recent pr #4630

## Tokens

Teleport is a "clustered" system, meaning it only allows access to hosts that had been previously granted cluster membership. To achieve this, a cluster has "join tokens" which can be shared to extend trust.

> A remote host can exchange one of these tokens with the cluster's auth server to receive signed certificates and become a trusted Teleport host (auth, node, or proxy server). Likewise, a remote Teleport cluster can exchange a token to become a leaf cluster in a [trusted cluster](admin-guide.md#trusted-clusters).

Reviewer 2: You can technically join a cluster as an `app` server now too (and a `kubernetes` server at some point soon as well) - maybe we can leave this for a future edit though.

Author: Yeah I'd prefer to change it once it's in the code so I can pull some of it out.

```go
type ProvisionTokenV2 struct {
  // Model Fields are fields that all Teleport objects have - see above
  Model Fields
  // Spec is the token specification
  Spec ProvisionTokenSpecV2 struct {
    // Roles is a list of roles associated with the token, that will be converted to
    // metadata in the SSH and X509 certificates issued to the user of the token
    Roles []teleport.Role // string
  }
}
```

**Role**

Unlike the RBAC roles in the documentation above, the `Roles` field on a Token determines what server roles a new host can take on in a cluster.

These are all of the possible role values, which can be found in the `teleport` package.

```go
RoleAuth           Role = "Auth"
RoleWeb            Role = "Web"
RoleNode           Role = "Node"
RoleProxy          Role = "Proxy"
RoleAdmin          Role = "Admin"
RoleProvisionToken Role = "ProvisionToken"
RoleTrustedCluster Role = "Trusted_cluster"
RoleSignup         Role = "Signup"
RoleNop            Role = "Nop"
RoleRemoteProxy    Role = "RemoteProxy"
RoleKube           Role = "Kube"
RoleApp            Role = "App"
```

### Retrieve Token

> This is the equivalent of `tctl get tokens/[tokenString]`.

Author: this `tctl` command doesn't work, even though `tokens` is the correct prefix. I tried `token` as well. Is there another command that achieves what `GetToken` does? If not I'll just remove this line completely.

Reviewer 2: I think `tctl tokens ls` is the analog, although I don't know if `tctl tokens ls <tokenString>` works.

}
```

### Create Token

You can use the `GenerateToken` RPC to programmatically create a new token. This is the equivalent of `tctl tokens add --type=[Roles] --value=[Token] --ttl=[TTL]`.

By default, Teleport will create a random 16 byte string using the `CryptoRandomHex` function in our `utils` package. If you want to customize this yourself, simply provide the `Token` field, though we strongly recommend utilizing best security practices.

> You can also set `TTL` to a maximum of 48 hours, but the shorter the life time the more secure your cluster will be.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also set `TTL` to a maximum of 48 hours. The shorter the lifetime, the more secure your cluster will be.
```

```go
// generate a token for adding a new proxy host to a cluster
tokenString, err := client.GenerateToken(ctx, auth.GenerateTokenRequest{
  Roles: teleport.Roles{teleport.RoleProxy},
  // Token will be a randomly generated 16 byte hex string
  // TTL will default to 30 minutes
})
if err != nil {
  return err
}

// generate a token for adding a remote cluster to a trusted cluster
tokenString, err := client.GenerateToken(ctx, auth.GenerateTokenRequest{

>   Token: customSecureString,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Token: "this-is-a-secure-token-string",
```
(make it more explicit that this is where you put your string if you want)

## Cluster Labels

!!! Note

>     This feature will be release with Teleport 5.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This feature will be released with Teleport 5.0.
```

Cluster Labels can be used to differentiate between leaf clusters in a [Trusted Cluster](trustedclusters.md). These can be useful when defining [roles](enterprise/ssh-rbac.md) within a trusted cluster, where each cluster has its own requirements for access.

For example, if each cluster corresponds to a different product that should only be accessed by its product team, you can give each cluster a label like `product: A`. Then create a role for each product which allows access to clusters with its respective product label.

> You may want to use the following RPC's to manage your cluster labels if:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may want to use the following RPCs to manage your cluster labels if:
```

Author: Should this be RPCs?

Reviewer 2: Yes, RPC's with an apostrophe implies that something belongs to the RPCs ("an RPC's job is to allow remote procedure calls") whereas RPCs without an apostrophe is the plural of RPC.

> ## Access Workflow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Access Workflows
```

> [Access Workflow](enterprise/workflow/index.md) can be used by Teleport users to request one or more additional roles on the fly. These requests can be partially or fully approved or denied by a Teleport Administrator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Access Workflows](enterprise/workflow/index.md) can be used by Teleport users to request one or more additional roles on the fly. These requests can be partially or fully approved or denied by a Teleport Administrator.
```

> You may want to use manage Access Workflow using the API if:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may want to use manage Access Workflows using the API if:
```

- You want to automatically administer the scaling up and down of permissions for developers depending on their task
- You want to utilize our supported [external tools](enterprise/workflow/index.md#integrating-with-an-external-tool) or other third party tools to control the flow of access

For example, you could have a team of contractors which need database access for some tasks, but should not have it permanently. To do this, you can give them the `contractor` role below, which allows them to request the `dba` role.

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: contractor
spec:
  options:
    # ...
  allow:
    request:
      roles: ['dba']
    # ...
  deny:
    # ...
```

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: dba
spec:
  options:
    # ...
    # Only allows the contractor to use this role for 1 hour from time of request.
    max_session_ttl: 1h
  allow:
    # ...
  deny:
    # ...
```

> Now if a contractor has a task requiring dba access, they can request dba access. To approve the request, you need an administrator with read and write permissions to access requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now if a contractor has a task requiring `dba` access, they can request `dba` access. To approve the request, you need an administrator with read and write permissions to access requests.
```

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: request-admin
spec:
  options:
    # ...
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources: [access_request]
      verbs: [list, read, update, delete]
  deny:
    # ...
```

A `request-admin` can list all current requests, resolve them, and delete them. Notice that `request-admin` might not be a great job to handle manually.

> With the API, you can automatically manage the requesting and or resolution of requests in order to streamline this process. Better yet, this opens up the ability to leverage external identity providers, by attaching relevant information as `Annotations` to requests, such as `ticket_id` or `task_id`. You can also use our custom [integrations with external tools](enterprise/workflow.md#integrating-with-an-external-tool), such as slack, to manage requests according to your custom configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the API, you can automatically manage the requesting and or resolution of requests in order to streamline this process. Better yet, this opens up the ability to leverage external identity providers by attaching relevant information as `Annotations` to requests, such as `ticket_id` or `task_id`. You can also use our custom [integrations with external tools](enterprise/workflow.md#integrating-with-an-external-tool), such as Slack, to manage requests according to your custom configuration.
```

### The Access Request Object

An `AccessRequest` is made by a `User` for a set of `Roles`. Once its `State` is resolved to "approved", this user has access to the permissions in those roles until the `Expiry` time, which can be set upon resolution.

There are also optional `Reasons` and `Annotations` which can be used for audit logs, to integrate external identity information into requests, and other custom usages you may have.

```go
// AccessRequest represents an access request resource specification
type AccessRequestV3 struct {
  // Resource Fields are fields that all Teleport resources have - see above
  Resource Fields

>   // Spec is an AccessReqeust specification

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // Spec is an AccessRequest specification
```

  Spec AccessRequestSpecV3 struct {
    // User is the name of the user to whom the roles will be applied.
    User string

>     // Roles is the name of the roles being requested.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // Roles is a list of the roles being requested.
```

    Roles []string

>     // State is the current state of this access request. Possible Values are pending, approved, and denied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // State is the current state of this access request. Possible values are pending, approved, and denied.
```

```go
// create a new access request for contractor to temporarily use the dba role in the cluster
ar, err := services.NewAccessRequest("contractor", "dba")
if err != nil {
  return err
}

// use AccessRequest setters to set optional fields
accessReq.SetRequestReason("I need more power.")
accessReq.SetAccessExpiry(time.Now().Add(time.Hour))
accessReq.SetSystemAnnotations(map[string][]string{
  "ticket": []string{"137"},
})

if err = client.CreateAccessRequest(ctx, accessReq); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

### Approve Access Request

This is equivalent to `tctl request approve [accessReqID] --roles=dba1 --reason="dba2 is not for you"`.

You can approve a subset of the roles in the request with the `Roles` field.

```go
aruApprove := services.AccessRequestUpdate{
  RequestID: accessReqID,
  State:     services.RequestState_APPROVED,
  Reason:    "dba2 is not for you",
  Roles:     []string{"dba1"},
}
if err := client.SetAccessRequestState(ctx, aruApprove); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

### Deny Access Request

> This is equivalent to `tctl request deny [accessReqID] --reason="not today"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is equivalent to `tctl request deny [accessReqID] --reason="Not today"`.
```
